# TADPole
*This page is a work-in-progess.*

## Abstract
Temporal models that use timestamped data from electronic health record (EHR) systems could enhance patient outcomes and reduce costs in point-of-care (POC) settings, especially for complex prediction tasks. However, a major obstacle to their widespread use is data drifts, which are changes in how input data relates to target outcomes. Currently, no studies have systematically categorized these data drifts for temporal EHR models or identified the key questions needed to address their impact. This study aims to create a conceptual framework, TADPole, for characterizing data drifts specifically for temporal models in POC environments.

## Example Usage
 **Processes** |  |  |  
---|---|---|---
 **Component** | **Definition** | **Questions to Consider** | **Response for Example** 
 Prediction task selection | Selection of outcome and time windows of interest. | 1) Who is the population of interest for the prediction model?<br>2) Which clinical experts will be consulted for development of the prediction task?<br>3) What prediction task and time windows of interest best support the outcome?<br>4) How often will the prediction task be updated?  |  
 Feature selection | Selection of input features for modeling. | 1) Who is responsible for feature selection and development?<br>2) Which clinical experts will be consulted for development of the features?<br>3) What features are related to the outcome of interest? <br>4) What biases related to these features should be considered, such as in the way the data is collected or sampled? <br>5) What features are easily, frequently, and accurately collected? <br>6) Are there any features identified that are not easily, frequently, and accurately collected?<br>7) When should the feature set be reviewed and updated? <br>8) When should the features be assessed for drift?  |  
 Drift detection method selection | Selection of drift detection method(s) that are best suited for the prediction task, drifts of interest, and implementation setting.  | 1) What are the populations of interest for modeling? Are there any expected sources of population drift?<br>2) Who will be responsible for the development and testing of the drift detection methods?<br>3) Who will be responsible for tuning the data drift methods once in production?<br>4) Who will be responsible for deciding when detected drift warrants any changes to production, such as model updates?<br>5) What types of drift are targets for detection and monitoring?<br>6) What methods are applicable to both the drifts of interest and temporal modeling?<br>7) What method provides the most information about the data drifts OR most accurately detects data drifts for the prediction task?<br>8) What will be considered a significant drift that warrants further action?<br>9) Are there going to be regular intervals for monitoring drifts or only when an alert is fired?<br>10) When will updates be expected if significant drifts are detected?  |  
 Work Systems |  |  |  
 **Component** | **Definition** | **Questions to Consider** | **Response for Example** 
 Location selection | Selected of where the model will be implemented. | 1) Who will make the final decision regarding the implementation setting and the affected population?<br>2) Who will be responsible for drift tuning and monitoring in each location?<br>3) How will drift detection results be communicated to leaders between each location?<br>4) What clinical settings will the model be implemented in?<br>5) Are there differences in clinical procedures and/or data collection between these locations that would affect the underlying data?<br>6) How do we ensure that population drift is accounted for?<br>7) When will reassessment of location selection occur?<br>8) How quickly will new locations be incorporated into the production solution?  |  
 Timeframe selection | Selection of the drift detection timeframes. | 1) Who is responsible for evaluating the effect of timeframe selection on accuracy of the drift detection methods?<br>2) What is the optimal timeframe for drift detection based on the prediction task?<br>3) Are there any seasonal, cyclical, or repetitive patterns to account for?<br>4) When will reassessment of the timeframe selection occur?  |  
 Change detection | Identification of processes to monitor changes in internal processes and model performance. | 1) Are there subpopulations of interest?<br>2) Who will be responsible for overseeing updates to the production models?<br>3) What monitoring mechanisms will be used to ensure changes to labels and features are flagged?<br>4) How will changes in model performance be detected and if poor performance is detected, how often will the model be updated?<br>5) Are there going to be any automated update procedures implemented? | 
